If your bones are strong , the potential for a fall to cause serious damage @-@ such as a broken hip or shoulder @-@ is greatly reduced .
As your body cannot produce calcium , you absorb it from the food you eat .
Dairy foods @-@ such as milk , yoghurt and cheese @-@ are good sources of calcium .
Dairy foods are an excellent source of calcium but tend to be higher in saturated fats .
Try eating a smaller piece of a stronger flavour cheese rather than a large piece of a milder cheese .
A serving is a small matchbox size piece of cheese , one medium low @-@ fat yogurt or a glass of milk .
Your skin makes most of the vitamin D your bodies need from sunlight .
For most people , normal levels built up in the summer will be enough to last through the winter .
To maintain healthy bones you need to keep active and do plenty of weight @-@ bearing and muscle @-@ strengthening exercise .
Swimming and hydrotherapy can also be relaxing and help relieve pain in people with osteoporosis or fractures .
If you &apos;ve been diagnosed with osteoporosis , it &apos;s a good idea to talk to a physiotherapist or exercise specialist before starting a new exercise programme , to make sure it &apos;s right for you .
Examples of high impact exercises include high-impact aerobics and jogging or running .
As well as weight @-@ bearing exercises , you should also attempt muscle @-@ strengthening exercises at least 2 times a week to keep your bones strong .
Like caffeinated drinks , alcohol prevents the body absorbing calcium from the foods we eat .
Smoking affects how well the bone building cells in your body work .
In women , it can also cause an earlier menopause increasing the risk of osteoporosis and breaking a bone .
Osteoporosis is a common condition that affects bones , causing a reduction in bone density .
There are usually no warnings you &apos;ve developed osteoporosis and it &apos;s often only diagnosed when a bone is fractured after even minor falls .
If you &apos;ve had a broken bone following a simple slip or trip , speak to your GP or other health professional about your bone health .
You &apos;re more at risk of breaking your hip if your bones are weak due to osteoporosis .
If you &apos;re at high risk of falling and breaking a bone , hip protectors can be worn to cushion the force of a fall .
The shells should cover your hips and absorb or divert the impact of a fall to prevent a broken hip .
It &apos;s less clear how effective hip protectors are for people living in their own homes .
Vision changes and hearing loss caused by the normal ageing process can increase your risk of falling .
Changes can occur gradually over time , which you may not notice until there &apos;s a significant deterioration .
If you need glasses , look after them and have your prescription checked regularly .
Speak to your GP if you notice a change in your hearing .
NHS eye tests are free to all UK residents in Scotland .
What is diabetic retinopathy screening ?
These types of lenses are prescribed for both near and farsighted people .
Remember to clean your glasses regularly , and to put them on your distance glasses if you get up in the night .
For example , height and depth can become difficult to judge , making stairs and stepping up kerbs and steps hazardous and causing difficulties when sitting on a chair or bed .
If you &apos;ve noticed a change in your hearing , speak to your GP as soon as possible .
Think you might have hearing loss ?
What positive things do you already do to look after your vision and hearing ?
Eating healthily is important for your overall health and wellbeing , but it can also help to prevent falls .
Eat regularly , and don &apos;t skip meals
It also shows the proportions of each food group that you should eat to have a well-balanced and healthy diet .
Try to include a variety of foods in your diet .
It &apos;s easier than you think , with frozen , canned and dried varieties as well as one portion of pure juice counting towards your 5 a day .
Eating some of these foods at each meal and snack times will prevent you from feeling lightheaded and dizzy .
Aim for 2 to 3 portions every day .
These are concentrated sources of calories and could cause you to gain weight if eaten too often .
It &apos;s important to eat regularly to help avoid problems like lightheadedness and tiredness , which contribute to your risk of falling .
As we get older our appetites often decrease .
If this continues to be a problem for you , ask your GP if a referral to a dietician would be helpful .
Drinking too much alcohol can make you unsteady on your feet , leading to an increased risk of falls .
Calculate how many units of alcohol you drink ( external link ) and find out how drinking too much alcohol affects your body ( external link ) through Drinkaware .
NHS Choices has information that can help if you &apos;re over 60 and under weight ( external link )
At any age , regular exercise helps to strengthen muscles and can improve your balance , stamina and suppleness , reducing your risk of falling and experiencing a serious injury if you do .
This can make matters worse you can lose confidence and become weaker and more unsteady on your feet .
Older people should aim to be active every day and , if possible , keep to a minimum the amount of time spent sitting for long periods .
If you don &apos;t usually exercise , any physical activity you can do is better than none at all .
Activities lasting for 10 minutes or more are of more benefit .
If you &apos;re not used to being active , you may find that it won &apos;t take very much activity to reach moderate intensity .
To reduce your risk of falls , you can also do specific exercises to improve your muscle @-@ strength .
Balance exercise can help you to feel steadier on your feet by challenging your balance .
You should aim to do balance exercises at least twice a week .
If you &apos;re unsteady on your feet , the Tai Chi instructor may be able to adapt some of the movements to suit you .
If you regularly do falls prevention exercises given to you by an exercise professional , physiotherapist , occupational therapist or falls specialist nurse keep doing them , unless you are injured or your health has changed .
Use this plan to record what physical activities and strength and balance exercises you &apos;ll do each week and how often .
Exercising with others in a class can be fun as well as being good for you health .
When planning what physical activity and exercise to do , remember that you don &apos;t need to do your strength and balance exercises every day , but you should try to be physically active every day .
You can search for classes and activities in your area ( external link ) through Active Scotland .
If you have certain medical conditions @-@ such as a heart or lung condition or other condition that makes exercise difficult @-@ there may be some exercises or activities that are n&apos;t suitable for you .
What positive things do you already do to keep physically active ?
The British Heart Foundation also offer tips and advice for staying active ( external link )
This video explains how regular exercise can help to prevent falls .
This video will show you how to test your balance to find out where to start .
Watch our &quot; Introduction to exercise &quot; video to find out why regular exercise is important for preventing falls , and to hear how other &apos;s have used exercise to help .
Make sure you &apos;re wearing comfortable flat shoes and you &apos;re exercising in a nice clear area .
Always think about your balance , do n&apos;t be overconfident .
Always start with a good posture .
Make sure that you breathe throughout the exercises
When you &apos;re ready , try to let go .
If you have to occasionally hold on or put a foot down , but only occasionally , you can start on Level 2
These exercises will help to improve your strength and balance , and build your confidence if you &apos;ve weak muscles or poor balance .
To start with , try each exercise 2 or 3 times and slowly increase the repetitions as you build strength and confidence .
After this time you &apos;ll notice the difference , you &apos;ll see your balance and strength improving , and feel ready to join a group or class to build on these exercises .
You will need support when doing these exercises so find something in your house that &apos;s safe and secure for you to hold on to .
Easy marching is a good way to warm up , and keep your circulation flowing , before any exercise .
A back extension can help with your posture by strengthening the back muscles and making sure that your shoulders are back and down , and that your chest is open .
Knee strengthening exercises will help you to maintain strength in the muscle at the front of your leg .
with or without an ankle weight , slowly extend your leg in front of you
Hip @-@ strengthening exercises can help to build good leg muscle strength , which will help you get out of the car , or bath , more easily .
With or without an ankle weight , slowly take the leg out to the side .
Hold it for a count of 4 or 5 seconds .
Strong ankles are important as they &apos;re first thing that keeps us upright .
These muscles are important as they help to lift our feet over obstacles .
Slowly bring your toes up towards your nose .
It &apos;s normal to wobble as you practice toe raises .
You can do this anywhere in your home , but make sure you &apos;ve got a solid chair .
Make sure you &apos;ve got good posture and that your toes are back under your knees .
Slowly sit back again with control .
As you repeat these , you &apos;ll find that your leg muscles start to get quite warm and perhaps a little bit tense .
These exercises will help to improve your confidence , muscle strength and balance .
After this time you &apos;ll notice the difference , you &apos;ll see your balance and strength improving , and you feel ready to join a group or class to build on these exercises .
Knee strengthening exercises will help you to maintain strength in the muscle at the back of your leg .
Hold on to a chair or counter to make sure your balance is good .
Hold on to a chair or counter for support .
Hold for a slow count of 4 or 5 , and then rise up again .
When practising heel @-@ toe standing , make sure that you hold on to a chair or counter to start with .
Heel-toe walking builds on heel-toe standing by including a movement forward .
Stand up tall and keep looking forward .
Make sure you &apos;ve got your weight evenly distributed before you start the next step .
Progress to doing about 10 of these steps .
Place your feet hip-width apart , stand up tall and hold on to something firm .
Try to keep looking forward .
Depending on the amount of space you &apos;ve got , keep moving to the left and then right until you &apos;ve done about 10 steps .
Repeat up to 8 times .
Watch our &quot; Level 3 exercise &quot; video to learn how to do these exercises and how often you should practice them .
Toe walking is another important balance exercise .
Pull your tummy muscles in and move slowly up on to your toes .
Try to keep the weight on your big toe and second toe .
Bring your heels down , turn towards your support then turn around and go in the opposite direction .
Standing tall , pull your toes up towards your nose , keeping your tummy tight and your bottom in .
This can be difficult but try as hard as you can to raise the toes up and keep them up during the walking .
Moving from sitting to standing is a core exercise that &apos;ll help to improve your strength and balance .
Learning to manage your medication well and understanding how they affect you are an important part of falls prevention .
In some cases , it may be because of the underlying conditions rather than the drugs themselves .
You can also find information about prescription medication ( external link ) using the electronic Medicines Compendium .
A plan will help you develop a routine and identify times when you &apos;re at an increased risk of a fall .
If your medication changes , remember to update your planner .
You can fill it yourself , or with assistance from family and carers .
Speak to your local pharmacist for more information .
Check the instructions , or your planner , to make sure you &apos;re taking it properly .
Use your own supply and never take medication prescribed for someone else .
Mixing alcohol with some medications can cause nausea and vomiting , headaches , drowsiness or loss of coordination , and make the medicine less effective .
Before taking any over @-@ the @-@ counter medication , or supplements , that you can buy without a prescription , it &apos;s important to check with your pharmacist as sometimes these can effect other medication you &apos;re taking .
If you &apos;d prefer to use a smartphone , or tablet , to manage your medication , Care 4 Today is a health management app that &apos;s been reviewed by clinicians to ensure that it &apos;s safe .
These changes can contribute to your risk of falling , increasing the likelihood of a trip or loss of balance .
Keep active and do some exercise to help your strength , balance and flexibility this can make a big difference
If you feel that you need some support when moving around , speak to a physiotherapist or occupational therapist about getting a walking stick or other type of walking aid .
Keep it clean and in good working order , and check the rubber stoppers or wheels for wear .
You may need to re-arrange furniture and other obstacles .
Your local health centre can help you find a physiotherapist .
When walking walk tall , let your arms swing naturally at your sides and look straight ahead .
If you need to look down , do this with your eyes and not your head .
Dizziness if you feel dizzy when you get up , try moving your legs in a slow marching action before standing up .
If you &apos;re unsteady on your feet and need to get up during the night , planning ahead will help you to move around safely .
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is a condition that causes an irregular heart rate .
A normal heart rate , when you are resting , should be between 60 and 100 beats a minute .
Find out how to take your pulse in our symptoms page .
When the heart beats normally , its muscular walls contract ( tighten and squeeze ) to force blood out and around the body .
This process is repeated every time the heart beats .
The atria contract randomly and sometimes so fast that the heart muscle cannot relax properly between contractions .
Some people with atrial fibrillation have no symptoms and are completely unaware that their heart rate is irregular .
The cause of atrial fibrillation is not fully understood , but it tends to occur in certain groups of people and may be triggered by certain situations , such as drinking excessive amounts of alcohol or smoking .
Atrial fibrillation is generally not life threatening , many people live normal healthy lives with this condition , but it can be uncomfortable and often needs treatment .
This is because when the atria in the heart do not contract properly there is a risk of blood clot formation .
A blood clot passing up to the arteries supplying the brain may cause a stroke .
Find out more about treatment for and complications of atrial fibrillation .
If you notice an irregular heartbeat and / or have chest pain , see your doctor immediately .
NHS Fife have created the folowing video which guides you on how to take your pulse .
The exact cause of atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is unknown , but it becomes more common with age and affects certain groups of people more than others .
Sometimes the cause can be idiopathic ( no known cause ) and can affect extremely athletic people .
However , a complete diagnosis requires a full medical investigation .
If your GP thinks you have atrial fibrillation after assessing your symptoms , you will be asked to have an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) and referred to a heart specialist , known as a cardiologist .
Small stickers called electrodes are attached to your arms , legs and chest and connected by wires to an ECG machine .
An ECG machine traces these signals on paper .
It takes about five minutes and is painless .
This will confirm the diagnosis of atrial fibrillation and rule out other conditions .
An echocardiogram , sometimes called an echo , is an ultrasound scan of the heart .
Find out more about an echocardiogram on the British Heart Foundation website .
They may show anaemia , which could be complicating the situation , problems with kidney function or hyperthyroidism ( overactive thyroid gland ) .
If a cause is found , treatment for this may be enough .
Some people with atrial fibrillation may need more than one anti-arrhythmic medicine to control it .
The best option for you will be decided by your cardiologist and / or GP .
To find out about side effects , read the patient information leaflet that comes with your medicine for more details .
If these get into the bloodstream , they can cause a stroke ( our complications of atrial fibrillation section has more information on this ) .
You will be classed as having a high , moderate or low risk of a stroke and will be given medication according to your risk .
The use of these new drugs to reduce the risk of stroke in atrial fibrillation patients is likely to increase with time .
Find out more about drug treatment of atrial fibrillation on the Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland website .
The heart is given a controlled electric shock to try to restore a normal rhythm .
In people who have had atrial fibrillation for more than two days , cardioversion is associated with an increased risk of clot formation .
If the cardioversion is successful , warfarin may be stopped .
It is an option if medication has not been effective or tolerated .
This procedure commonly takes two to three hours , so it may be done under general anaesthetic , where you are put to sleep .
A pacemaker provides beats where your heart is not supplying its own .
If there are significant pauses between your heart beats beats , the pacemaker will supply a beat , acting as a &apos; safety net &apos; .
When the upper chambers of the heart , called the atria , do not pump efficiently then there is a risk of blood clots forming .
Clots in the general circulation can block arteries in the brain , causing a stroke .
However , the risk depends on a number of factors , including age , whether you have high blood pressure , heart failure , diabetes and a previous history of blood clots .
The line between normal and raised blood pressure is not fixed and depends on your individual circumstances .
A normal blood pressure reading is classed as less than 130 / 80mmHg .
It pumps blood that is low in oxygen towards the lungs , through the venous &apos; pipeline &apos; ( veins ) , where it receives a fresh supply of oxygen .
How is blood pressure measured ?
It is measured in millimetres of mercury , or mmHg .
Therefore , if your GP says that your blood pressure is &apos; 120 over 80 &apos; , or 120 / 80mmHg , they mean that you have a systolic pressure of 120mmHg and a diastolic pressure of 80mmHg .
High blood pressure often causes no symptoms , or immediate problems .
Ask your GP when you are next due for yours to be checked .
In 90 @-@ 95 % of cases , there is no single identifiable reason for a rise in blood pressure .
Also , for reasons not fully understood , people of Afro @-@ Caribbean and South Asian origin ( Indian , Pakistani , and Bangladeshi ) are more likely to develop high blood pressure than other ethnic groups .
What &apos;s the impact of having high blood pressure ?
Symptoms can occur in rare cases where a person has a very high blood pressure level so it is good to be aware of these .
Blood pressure checks are usually available on request at most GP surgeries and health clinics .
Many also have a policy of arranging regular checks for you .
Watching your blood pressure while you are pregnant reduces your risk of developing pregnancy @-@ induced hypertension .
You can find out more about the symptoms of high blood pressure by calling the Heart Helpline on 0300 330 3311 ( 9am to 5pm , Monday to Friday ) .
While the specific cause of primary high blood pressure remains unknown , there is compelling evidence to suggest that a number of risk factors increase your chances of developing the condition .
Occasionally , a rise in blood pressure can result from taking herbal remedies , such as herbal supplements .
To get an accurate blood pressure reading , you should be sitting down and not talking when the reading is taken .
Therefore , your GP will need to take several readings over a set period of time , usually every month , to see whether your blood pressure level is consistently high .
You may also be given a blood pressure device to take home so that you can record your blood pressure level throughout the day .
Find out more about the ways in which your blood pressure can be measured below .
There are seven main risk factors for developing a cardiovascular disease .
Find out more about how you can change your lifestyle to lower your blood pressure in our prevention section .
You may need to take more than one type of medication to lower your blood pressure because a combination of treatments is sometimes needed to successfully treat the condition .
Research has shown that different blood pressure lowering medications work better for different ethnic groups .
It is thought that this is because black people tend to have a lower level of renin in their blood .
ACE inhibitors are most effective when there is a high amount of renin in the blood , so they are not as effective in treating black people with high blood pressure .
Therefore , blood and urine tests may be carried out before you start taking ACE inhibitors to make sure that there are no pre @-@ existing problems with your kidneys .
Most of these side effects should pass in a few days , although some people find that they continue to have a dry cough .
Therefore , as with any prescribed medication always check with your GP or pharmacist before taking any &apos; over the counter &apos; medication in combination with those prescribed for you .
Certain brands of calcium channel blocker may also cause constipation in some people .
They can also raise the level of sugar in your blood , which could lead to diabetes .
A few people have reported that they could not get or maintain an erection while taking thiazide diuretics .
This enables the blood vessels to relax and open , making it much easier for blood to flow through them and lower your blood pressure .
This is because beta @-@ blockers have more potential side effects than the other medications that are used to treat high blood pressure .
This reduces the pressure at which the blood is pumped out of your heart and around your body .
Stopping this medication suddenly will lead to serious side effects , such as a rise in blood pressure or chest pain caused by reduction in oxygen to your heart muscle ( angina ) .
High blood pressure can damage the small blood vessels in your kidneys and stop them from working properly .
Cases that are more serious may require dialysis ( a treatment where waste products are artificially removed from the body ) or a kidney transplant .
Find out more about reducing your salt intake on the Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland website .
However , eating some foods that are high in unsaturated fat can actually decrease your cholesterol level .
The table below indicates how much your health might be at risk , your ethnicity should also be taken into account .
While many cases of angina can be treated with medication , a coronary angioplasty may be required to restore the blood supply to the heart in severe cases .
Being as fit as you can be before the procedure can help your recovery from a coronary angioplasty .
During an angioplasty , a flexible tube called a catheter with a small inflatable balloon is passed through your artery .
You &apos;ll normally be able to go home the day after a coronary angioplasty .
How safe is a coronary angioplasty ?
It doesn &apos;t involve making major incisions in the body and is considered as a minimally invasive form of treatment .
A coronary angioplasty may not be technically possible or the best treatment for you depending on your circumstances .
Patients who are prescribed medicines take only about half of their doses and many stop treatment entirely .
Instead , we provide the key features and findings of each study in tables , and we describe intervention effects in studies of the highest quality .
In the 17 studies of the highest quality , interventions were generally complex with several different ways to try to improve medicine adherence .
Overall , even the most effective interventions did not lead to large improvements .
It is uncertain how medicine adherence can consistently be improved so that the full health benefits of medicines can be realized .
People who are prescribed self administered medications typically take only about half their prescribed doses .
The primary objective of this review is to assess the effects of interventions intended to enhance patient adherence to prescribed medications for medical conditions , on both medication adherence and clinical outcomes .
Pooling results according to one of these characteristics still leaves highly heterogeneous groups , and we could not justify meta @-@ analysis .
Studies were heterogeneous for patients , medical problems , treatment regimens , adherence interventions , and adherence and clinical outcome measurements , and most had high risk of bias .
Current methods of improving medication adherence for chronic health problems are mostly complex and not very effective , so that the full benefits of treatment cannot be realized .
This string can be used to acknowledge translators , your institution or funders , and to provide a contact address for queries in relation to the translation .
Such infections can be life @-@ threatening .
To compare the benefits and harms of lipid soluble formulations of amphotericin B with conventional amphotericin B in cancer patients with neutropenia .
The two review authors independently assessed trial eligibility and risk of bias and abstracted data .
It is not clear whether there are any advantages of lipid @-@ based formulations if conventional amphotericin B is administered under optimal circumstances , and their high cost prohibits routine use in most settings .
The abnormal cells of KS form purple , red , or brown patches , plaques or tumors on the skin .
Of the nine included studies , seven included patients with a mix of mild to moderate ( T0 ) Kaposi &apos;s sarcoma and severe ( T1 ) Kaposi &apos;s sarcoma .
Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy ( HAART ) , there has been a decline in its incidence .
Two review authors assessed the studies independently and extracted outcome data .
We included six randomised trials and three observational studies involving 792 HIV @-@ infected adults with severe Kaposi &apos;s sarcoma .
However , this review was restricted to the subset of participants with severe Kaposi &apos;s sarcoma disease .
The overall quality of evidence can be described as moderate quality .
Compulsory community treatment ( CCT ) for people with severe mental health problems is used in many countries , including Australia , Israel , New Zealand , the United Kingdom , and the United States .
Update searches for randomised trials were run in 2012 and 2013 and this review now includes three trials with a total of 752 people .
People receiving CCT were less likely to be victims of violent or non @-@ violent crime .
However , there is very limited information available , all results are based on three relatively small trials of low to medium quality , making it difficult to draw firm conclusions , so further research into the effects of different types of compulsory community treatment is much needed .
We obtained all references of identified studies and contacted authors where necessary .
Review authors independently selected studies , assessed their quality and extracted data .
Other than perceived coercion , no adverse outcomes were reported .
The English study met three out of the seven criteria of The Cochrane Collaboration &apos;s tool for assessing risk of bias , the others only one , the majority being rated unclear .
Evaluation of a wide range of outcomes should be considered when this legislation is introduced .
Acute middle ear infection ( acute otitis media ) is a very common disease in children and may cause pain and hearing loss .
Participants were aged 12 years or younger with AOM .
Acute otitis media ( AOM ) is a common problem in children , for which amoxicillin , with or without clavulanate , is frequently prescribed as a treatment of choice .
When we performed subgroup analysis separately for trials with amoxicillin only and amoxicillin / clavulanate only , it showed that all important outcomes were comparable between once or twice daily groups and the three times daily group .
Acute urinary retention in men is a medical emergency characterised by the sudden and often painful inability to pass urine .
Once the catheter is removed , some men fail to pass urine again and need to be re @-@ catheterised .
Catheters are associated with risks such as infection and can harm quality of life .
It is believed that their relaxing effect on the prostate may also increase the chance to void again after catheter removal .
In ideal circumstances , neither patients nor doctors knew which type of tablet was given , to prevent the bias in reporting the results .
Their results were similar except for doxazosin which did not seem to make a significant difference .
They included retrograde ejaculation , dizziness , low blood pressure , fainting , sleepiness , feeling unwell and headache .
Further research is needed to answer these questions .
In the absence of internationally agreed outcome measures for the success of a trial without catheter , success was defined as the return to satisfactory voiding without need for re @-@ catheterisation within 24 hours .
Any disagreement about trial selection and inclusion was resolved by discussion .
Quality of evidence of the critical outcomes was assessed by adopting the GRADE approach .
Trial without catheter was performed after treatment with the drug for one to three days in seven trials and for eight and 32 days in two other trials respectively .
There was some evidence to suggest that alpha blockers increase the success rates of trial without catheter , and the incidence of adverse effects was low .
The need for further surgery , cost effectiveness and recommended duration of alpha blocker treatment after successful trial without catheter remain unknown as these were not reported by any trial .
Large , well @-@ designed controlled trials , which use the recommendations set out in the CONSORT statement , and include clinically important outcome measures , are required .
One of the proposed strategies to treat the recurrence of chronic hepatitis C virus infection in these patients is using antiviral treatments .
We performed a detailed review of the medical literature ( to February 2013 ) to determine the benefits and harms of different antiviral treatments for patients with recurrent hepatitis C infection after undergoing liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis C virus infection .
When conducted properly , such trials provide the best evidence .
The patients were randomised to receive different treatments including no treatment in these 11 trials .
Quality of life and liver decompensation were not reported in any of the trials .
All the trials had high risk of systematic errors ( that is , bias where was a potential to arrive at wrong conclusions because of the way the trials were conducted overestimating benefits and underestimating harms ) and random errors ( there was a potential to arrive at the wrong conclusions because of the play of chance ) .
We considered only randomised clinical trials ( irrespective of language , blinding , or publication status ) comparing various antiviral therapies ( alone or in combination ) in the treatment of hepatitis C virus recurrence in liver transplantation for the review .
Overall , 17 trials with 736 patients met the inclusion criteria for this review .
There were no significant differences in mortality , retransplantation , graft rejections requiring retransplantation or medical treatment , or fibrosis worsening between the groups in any of the comparisons in which these outcomes were reported .
Further randomised clinical trials with low risk of bias and low risk of random errors with adequate duration of follow @-@ up are necessary .
This review provides limited evidence that interventions , such as pharmaceutical care , may be successful in ensuring that older people are receiving the right medicines , but it is not clear whether this always results in clinical improvement .
This review sought to determine which interventions , alone or in combination , are effective in improving the appropriate use of polypharmacy and reducing medication @-@ related problems in older people .
A range of study designs were eligible .
Two studies were added to this review to bring the total number of included studies to 12 .
Interventions were delivered by healthcare professionals , such as prescribers and pharmacists .
It is unclear whether interventions to improve appropriate polypharmacy , such as pharmaceutical care , resulted in clinically significant improvement ; however , they appear beneficial in terms of reducing inappropriate prescribing .
This review set out to find out whether treatment with ultrasound , in a variety of forms , accelerates fracture healing and reduces complications associated with new ( acute ) fractures .
Typically , ultrasound treatment involves placing a special device in contact with the skin overlying the fracture site for around 20 minutes on a daily basis .
There are 12 studies , involving 622 participants with 648 fractures , included in this review .
Most participants had a recent complete fracture of a single bone .
Additionally , the trials were very different from each other ; for example , they varied in the bone that was broken and whether or not the fractures were also treated surgically .
The results from one low quality trial ( with 59 fractures ) testing shockwave therapy were inconclusive .
While a potential benefit of ultrasound for the treatment of acute fractures in adults cannot be ruled out , the currently available evidence from 12 quite different trials is insufficient to support the routine use of ultrasound in clinical practice .
The morbidity and socioeconomic costs of fractures are considerable .
To assess the effects of low @-@ intensity ultrasound ( LIPUS ) , high @-@ intensity focused ultrasound ( HIFUS ) and extracorporeal shockwave therapies ( ECSW ) as part of the treatment of acute fractures in adults .
Two authors independently extracted data from the included studies .
Both quasi @-@ randomised studies were at high risk of bias , including selection and attrition bias .
Adverse effects directly associated with LIPUS and associated devices were found to be few and minor , and compliance with treatment was generally good .
Future trials should record functional outcomes and follow @-@ up all trial participants .
Hypothyroidism , also known as underactive or low thyroid , is a condition in which the thyroid gland does not produce sufficient amounts of thyroid hormones which are important for many functions of the body ( metabolism ) .
When Yang is deficient , it cannot produce the vital energy necessary to keep the body functioning well , and symptoms of hypothyroidism may result .
In Chinese philosophical and medical theory , it results from Yang deficiency .
We found no RCTs and therefore could not establish the effects of CHM on hypothyroidism .
This is known as congenital phimosis .
More recently , creams and ointments containing corticosteroids ( drugs that reduce inflammation limit or stop immune system activity ) that are applied for four to eight weeks have shown promising results .
The efficacy and safety of topical corticosteroids for treating phimosis in boys has not been previously systematically reviewed .
Statistical analyses were performed using the random @-@ effects model and results were expressed as risk ratios ( RR ) for dichotomous outcomes with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) .
Compared with placebo , corticosteroids significantly increased complete or partial clinical resolution of phimosis ( 12 studies , 1395 participants : RR 2.45 , 95 % CI 1.84 to 3.26 ) .
In people with such large burns , metabolism increases , as represented by a higher heart rate .
This breaking down of tissues into smaller molecules to release energy is called catabolism .
There is some evidence that recombinant growth hormone therapy in people with burns covering more than 40 % of the total body surface area helps burn wounds and donor sites heal more rapidly and reduce the length of hospital stay , without increased mortality or increased scarring .
Two review authors independently selected studies , assessed trial quality and extracted data .
The secondary outcomes were mortality rate , length of hospital stay , scar assessment , and adverse events : hyperglycaemia and septicaemia .
In addition , no firm conclusion can be drawn about manual lymph drainage in combination with other interventions , because only two studies were found that each tested different combinations .
The other study combined manual lymph drainage with compression , but this study was too small to draw conclusions .
When assessing whether early or late shoulder exercises reduced the likelihood of developing lymphoedema , the studies did not provide a clear result .
For all investigated interventions , no firm conclusion can be drawn about their effectiveness in reducing pain or improving quality of life .
Where possible , meta @-@ analyses were performed .
There was no difference in shoulder mobility or self @-@ reported shoulder disability at 12 months follow @-@ up ( one study ) .
Based on the current available evidence , we cannot draw firm conclusions about the effectiveness of interventions containing MLD .
The evidence suggests that progressive resistance exercise therapy does not increase the risk of developing lymphoedema , provided that symptoms are closely monitored and adequately treated if they occur .
What is the effectiveness and safety of vitrification in comparison to slow freezing as a method of preserving oocytes ( eggs ) in subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction ?
One reported ongoing pregnancy and both reported clinical pregnancy .
Two review authors independently extracted the data from eligible studies and assessed their risk of bias .
Neither study reported live birth rate .
No data were reported on adverse effects , nor were any other outcomes reported in the included trials .
Oocyte vitrification compared to slow freezing probably increases clinical pregnancy rates in women undergoing assisted reproduction .
This systematic review included five randomised controlled trials involving a total of 453 participants .
All trials had a high risk of bias ( suggesting the possibility of over- or under @-@ estimating the benefits or harms ) .
Routine drain use after an emergency open appendectomy may delay hospital discharge for patients with complicated appendicitis .
All of the trials were at a high risk of bias .
It is not clear whether routine abdominal drainage has any effect on the prevention of intra @-@ peritoneal abscess after open appendectomy for complicated appendicitis .
Trauma @-@ induced coagulopathy ( TIC ) is a disorder of the blood clotting process that can occur soon after trauma injury that can lead to the patient bleeding to death .
Readers should note that the assessment of test accuracy was not the single purpose of any of these 3 included studies .
This evidence strongly suggests that at the moment these tests should only be used for research .
We also screened reference lists , conducted forward citation searches and contacted authors .
Participants were adult trauma patients in both military and civilian settings .
We found no evidence on the accuracy of TEG and very little evidence on the accuracy of ROTEM .
